hello friends today we are going to
discuss on designing of CMOS full adder
circuit so in previous tutorials we have
found that how to design a CMOS half
adder circuit now in this tutorial we
are going to see that how to design a
full adder circuit to before designing
this let me draw the block diagram of it
so as we know the full adder circuit
always complete comprises of two half
adder circuit so if we quickly draw the
two half adder circuit so this is the
block diagram of it
well a and B of the half adder circuit
of first one will be the input whose
output is nothing but sum that is s1 and
carry that is it can be taken as c1 now
what happens is this particular sum will
be go through the second half adder
circuit directly that is nothing but the
main sum and for the second half adder
circuit always remember that the
previous carry is always there taken as
the second input of that particular
second half adder circuit like see in
here what happens is this see in is the
input of this particular half adder
circuit is a second block and this is
the two inputs of the second block of
half adder circuit from when once again
sum and carry is coming out similarly
here also sum and carry is coming out so
this is nothing but C 2 now this C 2 and
the previous scary is going to be simply
added to give you the main output that
is C out so generally we go through this
particular block diagram and we will
design this thing using VLSI design so
to do so we need to go for step one so
quickly go for the step 1 process so
step one is we have to go for the truth
table of full adder circuit that is a
truth table of full adder circuit what
is that
a B and C in this is a three input and
main output is sum and carry that is C
out so for three input how many
combination total eight combination so 0
0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 1
and one one one so quickly see this
someone someone and for here it is some
zero theorem on similarly here it is
so someone similarly but for these three
cases as all these three are one
so someone carry one so from this
particular thing we are going to see the
sum expression of some so how many where
are the ones out there we have to see
see here the one is there so it is a bar
b Bar C in similarly e bar b c in bar
similarly e b bar same bar plus this one
a B C in so this is the expression of
some now we will see the expression of C
out see when at the one side there three
occasions
so first is BC in plus AC in plus a B
plus a B and C so from there we have to
go through the quickly we will see the
common we have to take the common so
here we can take the common of C in so
we can take a plus B from this 2 and
from here we can take a B common so 1
plus seen so finally what we will get C
in a plus B plus a B into 1 because this
is ultimately is giving you 1 there is a
boolean expression so this expression we
will get so first we will design C out
first
and then we have to see the second step
of full adder because here the pretty
complex cases that particular C out will
be taken as a third input of the next
half a
circuit so if you quickly draw the this
particular diagram so here we'll see see
in into a plus B so it should be I am
drawing the pulldown network first so C
in into a plus B so a plus B will be in
parallel class means parallel a into B
for pulldown it should be in serious
condition so a and B over now the same
opposite will be for pull-up network so
a B in series so a B should be in
parallel this a B is for this a B and
this whole thing is now parallel so this
parallel will be in series so this is
the series now seen it is in series with
a B barrel so a B will be in series
first ABC series first then it is now it
should be parallel with C so I am taking
parallel with seen clear now as this is
whole thing is getting parallel with a B
product so now it should be the whole
thing it is getting series with this
thing so it should we connect it in VDD
and now I am making out my C out but
remember as the automatic inversion is
there in CMOS so this particular C out
will be in C out bar now we have to make
sure we have to understand that C out
where it is taking as a third input of
that particular this half adder circuit
now we have to quickly redraw the truth
table of it and if we assume that you
know ABC in with that if you take C out
bar
is the fourth input then what will
happen of some because we need to row
you know see out we have already got now
the sum it is the main important thing
we have to think about the sum so to get
the sum we have to go for the C out
taken as the fourth input so how many
combination 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 month and 1
0 0 1 0 1 1 1 0 and 1 1 1 right and if
you see the C out to automatically if
you take the inversion of it so it was 0
0 0 1 so it is 1 1 1 0 and 0 1 1 1 means
1 0 0 0 so similarly if you copy this
particular sum from this truth table
nothing else you know redrawing the
truth table okay now from that
particular tooth table we can draw the
final output so what is that we have to
go for this for occasions where the ones
are coming in so here C in C out bar
plus second is B C out 1 plus e C out
part plus a B C in so if you take common
of C out bar so a plus B plus C in C out
but Plus this one a b c in now this is
the final output of some you have to
make sure to draw how to draw the
diagram see the divergent diagram is now
a plus B plus C in into Z out bar so a
plus B plus C in will be in parallel
and see out bar will be in series right
so this is he out but if I can take here
directly connection this is nothing but
Z out but now this is okay now plus
means parallel ABC bar all should be in
series for pull down
so pulldown is ready now similarly this
thing will be there in pull-up so as ABC
in all in series and here we will do
fast this one so similarly if you take
the pull-up network for it see what
happens here but initially see out but
what about was there it was series in
this that should be in parallel all
together it should be in parallel that
is this series parallel of ABC in so he
be seeing this whole bubble should be
there a be seen was in series now a B
and C in all will be in barrel okay now
this part is complete here now whole
thing it was parallel in pulldown
network now whole thing will be there in
series ABC it was earlier in series for
this particular part now all thing this
will be in parallel of it a B and C so
it will be a B and scene okay
so from there here obviously you need to
take the connection right so C out bar
here and here also so finally it is for
some you know this is some but remember
one thing this is also some bar and this
is also see out bar to take the pure
output of some you need to take an
inverter of it there also and here also
you need to take one inverter obviously
remember this inverter will not work
because it is a digital inverter you
have to go for always CMOS inverter to
design so this is how we need to design
the sum and carry so this is how you
have to go for the CMOS VLSI full adder
circuit this is how you need to draw the
CMOS VLS a full adder circuit hope this
tutorial helped you to design for CMOS
full adder circuit thank you